Microwindows is an Open Source project aimed at bringing
the features of modern graphical windowing environments
to smaller devices.  Microwindows' genesis was with the
NanoGUI project, and is now the primary distribution for
both the Microwindows and Nano-X codebase.  Microwindows
currently runs on Linux, UNIX, X11, ELKS, MSDOS, RTEMS
and bare VGA hardware.  It uses the same device-
independent graphics engine built for the NanoGUI project.
Microwindows compiles a sample application and the WinCE 
graphics api in about 42k.

The architecture of Microwindows allows it to be ported
or run on a wide variety of systems.  Cross-compilation
for MIPS, ARM and x86 processors is supported. There are currently
screen drivers for Linux 2.2.x framebuffers and Linux 2.0.x
svgalib, as well as an X11 driver that allows applications
to be built and tested under X11 before running on the
target platform.  There exists a portable 4-planes VGA driver
that will run on bare hardware, ELKS, MSDOS, or RTEMS.
There are mouse drivers written for bare hardware, direct
serial port, Linux GPM driver, and touchpads.  The Microwindows
graphics engine is capable of running on any system that
support readpixel, writepixel, drawhline and drawvline,
although more advanced bit blit routines are provided.

Microwindows features full RGB color support, optimized
palette bitmap drawing, and a 3d look-and-feel.
Overlapped and child windows are supported, with complete
window and client area clipping.  Proportional and fixed
fonts are supported, along with utilities for converting
any MS Windows font or .bmp file.  Optimized painting
algorithms are used to allow maximum response while the
user is moving windows on the screen.

In addition, the Nano-X server can also be built on top of
the device-independent graphics engine.

The main Microwindows web site is at
	http://microwindows.org/

An HTML based FAQ and Architecture document are available from
the web site.

Microwindows may be downloaded at
	ftp://microwindows.org/pub/microwindows

The chief maintainer of the project is Greg Haerr <greg@censoft.com>

Microwindows and Nano-X are discussed on the NanoGUI mailing
list.  To subscribe, send mail to nanogui-subscribe@linuxhacker.org.
The list is nanogui@linuxhacker.org.

Mailing list archives are available at
	http://www.linuxhacker.org/cgi-bin/ezmlm-cgi/0

The ELKS mailing list is linux-8086@vger.rutgers.edu.  To subscribe,
send a message to majordomo@vger.rutgers.edu containing the words
subscribe linux-8086 in the body.


